[main]
host = https://www.transifex.com

[o:hotosm:p:tasking-manager:r:version-4]
source_file = frontend/src/locales/en.json
file_filter = frontend/src/locales/<lang>.json
type        = KEYVALUEJSON
source_lang = en
trans.hu    = frontend/src/locales/hu.json
trans.id    = frontend/src/locales/id.json
trans.sv    = frontend/src/locales/sv.json
trans.tl    = frontend/src/locales/tl.json
trans.tr    = frontend/src/locales/tr.json
trans.uk    = frontend/src/locales/uk.json
trans.de    = frontend/src/locales/de.json
trans.es    = frontend/src/locales/es.json
trans.fr    = frontend/src/locales/fr.json
trans.he    = frontend/src/locales/he.json
trans.nl_NL = frontend/src/locales/nl_NL.json
trans.ar    = frontend/src/locales/ar.json
trans.fa_IR = frontend/src/locales/fa_IR.json
trans.mg    = frontend/src/locales/mg.json
trans.ml    = frontend/src/locales/ml.json
trans.ko    = frontend/src/locales/ko.json
trans.pt    = frontend/src/locales/pt.json
trans.pt_BR = frontend/src/locales/pt_BR.json
trans.sw    = frontend/src/locales/sw.json
trans.cs    = frontend/src/locales/cs.json
trans.el    = frontend/src/locales/el.json
trans.it    = frontend/src/locales/it.json
trans.ja    = frontend/src/locales/ja.json
trans.zh_TW = frontend/src/locales/zh_TW.json
