# Architecture

![TM Architecture](../images/tm-architecture.svg)

Reference for the [Cloudformation script](https://github.com/hotosm/tasking-manager/blob/develop/scripts/aws/cloudformation/tasking-manager.template.js):

**TaskingManagerASG** AutoScalingGroup configures the properties of
the Autoscaling Group. There is a condition that determines three
levels of autoscaling: development (1 instance only), demo (max 3
instances), and production (min 2 max 6 instances).

**TaskingManagerScaleUp** Scaling Policy determines the threshold at
which the ASG scales up. We use the CloudWatch metric
ALBRequestCountPerTarget to keep the number of requests per instance
below a certain level.

**TaskingManagerLaunchConfiguration** has a number of metadata files
and commands which are loaded and run during instantiation of a new
server into the ASG. The Tasking Manager environment variables are set
in this resource.

**TaskingManagerEC2Role** IAM role enables the backend servers to
communicate with CodeDeploy, CloudWatch monitoring, Cloudformation,
and the RDS Database.

**TaskingManagerDatabaseDumpAccessRole** is an EC2 IAM Role that is
only used if a database dump file is given in the configuration,
enabling access to the s3 bucket containing that file.

**TaskingManagerEC2InstanceProfile** is a required resource for giving
a server programmatic access to AWS services.

**TaskingManagerLoadBalancer** configures the security groups and
subnets for the Application Load Balancer AWS resource.

**TaskingManagerLoadBalancerRoute53** record set for the load
balancer.

**TaskingManagerTargetGroup** configures health checks for each target
in the Load Balancer.

**TaskingManagerLoadBalancerHTTPSListener** assigns the SSL
Certificate, protocol, and port to the HTTPS Listener.

**TaskingManagerLoadBalancerHTTPListener** redirects requests to
HTTPS.

**TaskingManagerRDS** configures all the properties of the database
RDS.

**TaskingManagerReactBucket** is the bucket where the frontend code is
stored and served.

**TaskingManagerReactBucketPolicy** gives read access to the objects
stored in the bucket.

**TaskingManagerReactCloudfront** configures the CloudFront
Distribution for the static frontend stored on S3.

**TaskingManagerRoute53** is the Route53 Record for the frontend,
i.e. `tasks.hotosm.org`

### Parameters

**GitSha** is the commit hash from the HOTOSM Tasking Manager
repository to be deployed.

**NetworkEnvironment** has only two options- `staging` and
`production`, and determines the security groups used for the EC2s and
Load Balancer.

**AutoscalingPolicy** can be `development`, `demo`, or `production`
and determines the min/max number of instances.

**DBSnapshot** is an optional parameter. Specify the RDS Snapshot ID
to create the database from a snapshot.

**DatabaseDump** is an optional parameter. Specify the s3 bucket
object path to create the database from a plaintext dump file.

**NewRelicLicense**

**PostgresDB** is the name of the database

**PostgresPassword** is the database password

**PostgresUser** is the database user

**DatabaseEngineVersion** AWS PostgreSQL Engine version

**DatabaseInstanceType** is the AWS database instance tier (eg
db.t3.large)

**DatabaseDiskSize** is the size (in GB) of the RDS
instance. Recommended at least 100GB for better IOPS

**DatabaseParameterGroupName** use the default parameter group if you
don't know what this is.

**DatabaseSnapshotRetentionPeriod** Retention period for automatic
(scheduled) snapshots in days.

**ELBSubnets** is a comma-separated string of subnets for your AWS
region. Make sure the subnets support the EC2 instance type.

**SSLCertificateIdentifier** the ID for the AWS SSL Certificate

**TaskingManagerLogDirectory** the path on the instance where the logs
are stored on the server, e.g. `/var/log/tasking-manager/`

**TaskingManagerClientId** is a key generated by creating and OSM
OAuth Client Application.

**TaskingManagerClientSecret** is a secret key generated by creating
and OSM OAuth Client Application.

**TaskingManagerRedirectUri** allowed URIs to which the user can be
redirected after authorizing the application.

**TaskingManagerScope** are scope(s) which may be requested by a client.

**TaskingManagerSecret** a random string for the frontend and backend
to communicate.

**TaskingManagerAppBaseUrl** the full base url of the site,
e.g. `https://tasks.hotosm.org/`.

**TaskingManagerEmailFromAddress** an email address from which
messages will be sent to users.

**TaskingManagerEmailContactAddress** a contact address which will
show up in places around the site

**TaskingManagerLogLevel** can be either `DEBUG` or `INFO`

**TaskingManagerImageUploadAPIURL**

**TaskingManagerImageUploadAPIKey**

**TaskingManagerSMTPHost** the host url for the AWS Simple Email Service

**TaskingManagerSMTPPassword** the authentication password for AWS SES

**TaskingManagerSMTPUser** the authentication user for AWS SES

**TaskingManagerSMTPPort** the port for AWS SES

**TaskingManagerDefaultChangesetComment** the project default comment hashtag

**TaskingManagerURL** the url without the protocol- e.g. `tasks.hotosm.org`

**TaskingManagerOrgName** Name of the app/org hosting the app

**TaskingManagerOrgCode** 3 letter code for the org name

**SentryBackendDSN** If using sentry, input DSN url here

**TaskingManagerLogo** URL for a logo
