# Code of conduct

(The latest version can be found at https://www.hotosm.org/code-of-conduct)

Welcome to Humanitarian OpenStreetMap Team. HOT is committed to
providing a welcoming and safe environment for people of all races,
gender identities, gender expressions, sexual orientations, physical
abilities, physical appearances, socio-economic backgrounds,
nationalities, ages, religions, and beliefs.

The HOT community principles are:

**Be friendly and patient.** Be generous and kind in both giving and
accepting critique. Critique is a natural and important part of our
culture. Good critiques are kind, respectful, clear, and constructive,
focused on goals and requirements rather than personal
preferences. You are expected to give and receive criticism with
grace. Be considerate in speech and actions, and actively seek to
acknowledge and respect the boundaries of fellow attendees.

**Be welcoming.** We strive to be a community that welcomes and
supports people of all backgrounds and identities. Some examples of
behavior that contributes to creating a positive environment include:

- Using welcoming and inclusive language.

- Being respectful of differing viewpoints and experiences.

- Gracefully accepting constructive criticism.

- Showing empathy towards other community members.

- Placing collective interest before your own interest.

**Be considerate.** Your work will be used by other people, and you in
turn will depend on the work of others. Any decision you take will
affect users and colleagues, and you should take those consequences
into account when making decisions. Remember that we're a world-wide
community, so you might not be communicating in someone else's primary
language.

**Be respectful.** Not all of us will agree all the time, but
disagreement is no excuse for poor behavior and poor manners. We might
all experience some frustration now and then, but we cannot allow that
frustration to turn into a personal attack. It’s important to remember
that a community where people feel uncomfortable or threatened is not
a productive one. Members of the HOT community should be respectful
when dealing with other members as well as with people outside the HOT
community.

**Be careful in your word choice.** We are a global community of
professionals, and we conduct ourselves professionally. Be kind to
others. Do not insult or put down other participants. Harassment and
other exclusionary behavior aren't acceptable. This includes, but is
not limited to:

- Violent threats or language directed against another person.

- Discriminatory jokes and language.

- Posting sexually explicit or violent material.

- Posting (or threatening to post) other people's personally
  identifying information ("doxing").

- Personal insults, especially those using racist or sexist terms.

- Unwelcome sexual attention.

- Advocating for, or encouraging, any of the above behavior.

- Repeated harassment of others. In general, if someone asks you to
  stop, then stop.

**Assume all communications are positive.** Always remain polite, and
assume good faith. It is surprisingly easy to misunderstand each
other, be it online or in person, particularly in such a culturally
diverse setting as ours. Misunderstandings are particularly easy to
arise when we are in a rush, or otherwise distracted. Please ask
clarifying questions before assuming that the communication was
inappropriate.

**When we disagree, try to understand why.** Disagreements, both
social and technical, happen easily and often. It is important that we
resolve such disagreements and differing views constructively. At
times it can be hard to appreciate a viewpoint that contradicts your
own perceptions. Instead of pushing back, try to understand where the
other person is coming from, and don’t be afraid to ask questions. You
can be most helpful if your own replies serve to clarify, rather than
to escalate an issue. Also don’t forget that it can be easy to make
mistakes, and allow for the possibility that the mistake may have been
yours. When this happens it is better to resolve the issue together,
and to learn from the experience together, than to place blame.


Original text courtesy of the [Speak Up! project](http://web.archive.org/web/20141109123859/http://speakup.io/coc.html).

Further sources:

- [Ada Initiative: HOWTO design a code of conduct for your community](https://adainitiative.org/2014/02/18/howto-design-a-code-of-conduct-for-your-community/)

- [Algorithm Club Code of Conduct](https://github.com/drtortoise/critical-algorithm-studies/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md)

- [American Red Cross GIS Team Code of Conduct](https://github.com/AmericanRedCross/team-code-of-conduct)

- [Contributor Covenant – A Code of Conduct for Open Source Projects](http://contributor-covenant.org/)

- [Django Code of Conduct](https://www.djangoproject.com/conduct/)

- [Mozilla Community Participation Guidelines](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/about/governance/policies/participation/)

- [Vox Media Code of Conduct](http://code-of-conduct.voxmedia.com/)

## Complaint Handling Process

As a first measure, it is preferable to work out issues directly with
the people involved, or to work with other Community Members who can
help you resolve the issue. This may take several forms:

- Talk with one another. Assume that communications are positive and
  that people are treating each other with respect. Cues about
  emotions are often lacking in digital communications. Many of our
  modes of digital communication tend towards brevity, which can be
  easier to interpret incorrectly as being negative.

- Contact a representative of the [Community Working
  Group](https://www.hotosm.org/community/working-groups/), which
  exists to support the HOT Community. Representatives are available
  to discuss any concerns about behaviour within the community, or
  ideas to promote positive behaviours. You can email them at
  [community@hotosm.org](mailto:community@hotosm.org).

- Contact a representative of the [Governance Working
  Group](https://www.hotosm.org/community/working-groups/), which
  drafted these recommendations and the CoC. Representatives are
  available to provide advice on particular scenarios, as well as on
  the processes around the CoC.

- Contact the HOT Chair of Voting Members.

- Contact a [HOT Board Member](https://www.hotosm.org/board). Board
  members are well versed in the community and its management. They
  can offer advice on your particular situation, and know the
  resources of the organization that may be available to you.

- Contact the HOT Community Partnerships Manager.

When these informal processes fail, or when a situation warrants an
immediate response by HOT, you can evoke the **HOT Policy and Code of
Conduct Complaint Handling Process**. This process was adopted by HOT
Voting Members in 2016 to provide a more formal means of enforcement
for our community standards. You start it by emailing
[complaints@hotosm.org](mailto:compaints@hotosm.org) with a
description of your complaint, your name, and the name of the
offending party. All complaints will be considered confidential. The
full process is described
[here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xb-SPADtSbgwl6mAgglHMPHpknt-E7lKRoIcSbW431A/edit)
